[Docs] Voyager v1.6 (#20006)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-voyager/migrate/live-fall-back.md

1. Verify your migration. After the schema and data import is complete, the automated part of the database migration process is considered complete. You should manually run validation queries on both the source and target database to ensure that the data is correctly migrated. A sample query to validate the databases can include checking the row count of each table.

    {{< warning title = "Caveat associated with rows reported by get data-migration-report" >}}

Suppose you have the following scenario:

- [import data to target](#import-data-to-target) or [import data file](../bulk-data-load/#import-data-files-from-the-local-disk) command fails.
- To resolve this issue, you delete some of the rows from the split files.
- After retrying, the import data to target command completes successfully.

In this scenario, the [get data-migration-report](#get data-migration-report) command reports an incorrect imported row count because it doesn't take into account the deleted rows.

For more details, refer to the GitHub issue [#360](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/360).

    {{< /warning >}}

> 1. Disable indexes/triggers and foreign-key/check constraints on the source database to ensure that changes from the target YugabyteDB database can be imported correctly to the source database using the following PLSQL commands on the source schema as a privileged user:

Author: why no indexes?

> 1. Disable indexes/triggers and foreign-key/check constraints on the source database to ensure that changes from the target YugabyteDB database can be imported correctly to the source database using the following PLSQL commands on the source schema as a privileged user:

Reviewer: As here (fall-back) only new changes are going to be applied to the source database, it is okay if we do not disable indexes (as those will only affect slight performance ) but triggers and foreign constraints need to be disabled for correctness.

1. Verify your migration. After the schema and data import is complete, the automated part of the database migration process is considered complete. You should manually run validation queries on both the source and target YugabyteDB database to ensure that the data is correctly migrated. A sample query to validate the databases can include checking the row count of each table.

    {{< warning title = "Caveat associated with rows reported by get data-migration-report" >}}

Suppose you have the following scenario:

- [import data to target](#import-data-to-target) or [import data file](../bulk-data-load/#import-data-files-from-the-local-disk) command fails.
- To resolve this issue, you delete some of the rows from the split files.
- After retrying, the import data to target command completes successfully.

In this scenario, the [get data-migration-report](#get-data-migration-report) command reports an incorrect imported row count because it doesn't take into account the deleted rows.

For more details, refer to the GitHub issue [#360](https://github.com/yugabyte/yb-voyager/issues/360).

    {{< /warning >}}

> 1. Disable triggers and foreign-key constraints on the source database to ensure that changes from the target YugabyteDB database can be imported correctly to the source database using the following PLSQL commands on the source schema as a privileged user:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Disable triggers and foreign-key constraints on the source database to ensure that changes from the target YugabyteDB database can be imported correctly to the source database using the following PL/SQL commands on the source schema as a privileged user:
```

        LOOP
           EXECUTE IMMEDIATE 'ALTER TABLE '||R.owner||'."'||R.object_name||'" DISABLE ALL TRIGGERS';
        END LOOP;
    END;
    /

    --disable referential constraints

    BEGIN
        FOR c IN (SELECT table_name, constraint_name
                FROM user_constraints
                WHERE constraint_type IN ('R') AND OWNER = '<SCHEMA_NAME>')
        LOOP
          EXECUTE IMMEDIATE 'ALTER TABLE ' || c.table_name || ' DISABLE CONSTRAINT ' || c.constraint_name;
        END LOOP;
    END;
    /
    ```

### Cutover to the source (Optional)

During this phase, switch your application over from the target YugabyteDB database back to the source database. As this step is _optional_, perform it only if the target YugabyteDB database is not working as expected.

Keep monitoring the metrics displayed for `export data from target` and `import data to source` processes. After you notice that the import of events to the source database is catching up to the exported events from the target YugabyteDB database, you are ready to cutover. You can use the "Remaining events" metric displayed in the `import data to source` process to help you determine the cutover.

> Perform the following steps as part of the cutover process:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Perform the following steps as part of the cutover process:
```

1. Quiesce your target YugabyteDB database, that is stop application writes.

> 1. Perform a cutover after the exported events rate ("Export rate" in the metrics table) drops to using the following command:

Reviewer 2: drops to what?

    ```sh
    # Replace the argument values with those applicable for your migration.
    yb-voyager initiate cutover to source --export-dir <EXPORT_DIR>
    ```

    Refer to [cutover to source](../../reference/cutover-archive/cutover/#cutover-to-source) for details about the arguments.

    The `initiate cutover to source` command stops the `export data from target` process, followed by the `import data to source` process after it has imported all the events to the source database.

1. Wait for the cutover process to complete. Monitor the status of the cutover process using the following command:

    ```sh
    # Replace the argument values with those applicable for your migration.
    yb-voyager cutover status --export-dir <EXPORT_DIR>
    ```

    Refer to [cutover status](../../reference/cutover-archive/cutover/#cutover-status) for details about the arguments.

> 1. Re-enable triggers and foreign-key constraints on the source database using the following PLSQL commands on the source schema as a privileged user:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Re-enable triggers and foreign-key constraints on the source database using the following PL/SQL commands on the source schema as a privileged user:
```

        # Set optional argument to store a back up of any of the above arguments.
        --backup-dir <BACKUP_DIR>
```

Note that after you end the migration, you will _not_ be able to continue further. If you want to back up the schema, data, log files, and the migration reports (`analyze-schema` report and `get data-migration-report` output) for future reference, the command provides an additional argument `--backup-dir`, using which you can pass the path of the directory where the backup content needs to be saved (based on what you choose to back up).

Refer to [end migration](../../reference/end-migration/) for more details on the arguments.

## Limitations

In addition to the Live migration [limitations](../live-migrate/#limitations), the following additional limitations apply to the fall-back feature:

1. Fall-back is unsupported with a YugabyteDB cluster running on YugabyteDB Managed.
1. SSL Connectivity is unsupported for export or streaming events from YugabyteDB during `export data from target`.
1. In the fall-back phase, you need to manually disable (and subsequently re-enable if required) constraints/indexes/triggers on the source database.

> 1. yb-voyager provides limited datatypes support with YugabyteDB CDC during `export data from target` for datatypes such as DECIMAL and Timestamp.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this means
- support for data types during CDC is limited, eg, Decimal and Timestamp are not supported; OR
- support for Decimal and Timestamp data types is limited during CDC; 
- or something else entirely

Author: cc @priyanshi-yb - I think its the first point in the suggestion. Can you clarify?

Reviewer: yes 1st one is correct.
